Welcome back.
It is often the case that you'll
end up having vectors in very,
very high dimensions.
You want to find a way to reduce
the dimension of these vectors
to two dimensions so
you can plot it on an XY axis.
You will now learn about
principal components analysis,
which will allow you to do so.
You are going to be using
principal component analysis to
visualize vector representations
with higher dimensions than the ones
that you've seen plotted so far.
To get started, I'll give you some
intuition on the motivation for
visualizing vector presentation of words.
And you'll see for yourself what
principal components analysis does and
how it is used for
dimensionality reduction.
Imagine you have the following
representation for
your words in a vector space.
In this scenario, your vector
space dimension is higher than tw.
You know that the words oil and gas,
and city, and town are related.
And you want to see if that relationship
is captured by the representation
of your words.
So how could you visualize your
words in order to see this and
other possible relationships?
Dimensionality reduction is
a perfect choice for this task.
When you have a representation of your
words in a high dimensional space.
You could use an algorithm like PCA
to get a representation on a vector
space with fewer dimensions.
If you want to visualize your data,
you can get a reduced representation
with three or fewer features.
If you perform principal components
analysis on your data and
get a two-dimensional representation,
you can then plot a visual of your words.
In this case, you might find that
your initial representation captured
the relationship between the words oil and
gas, and city, and town.
Because in your two-dimensional space they
appear to be clustered with related words.
You can even find other relationships
among your words that you didn't expect,
which is a fun and useful possibility.
Now that you know what
PCA can help you achieve,
let's go into detail on how it works.
For the sake of simplicity, I'll begin
with a two dimensional vector space.
Say that you want your data to be
represented by one feature instead.
Using PCA, first you'll find
a set of uncorrelated features.
And then projects your data
to a one dimensional space,
trying to retain as much
information as possible.
As you can see,
this process is quite straightforward.
Coming up, you'll see for yourself
the details of how this algorithm works.
Along with how to get
uncorrelated features,
you'll also project your data for
your representation
in a lower dimension while retaining
as much information as possible.
Let's do a quick review before you go.
PCA is an algorithm used for
dimensionality reduction that can find
uncorrelated features for your data.
It's very helpful for
visualizing your data
to check if your representation is
capturing relationships among words.